Provided proper attribution is provided, Google hereby grants permissionto reproduce the tables and figuresin this paper solely for usein journalisticor scholarly works. 

# **Attention Is All You Need** 

**Ashish Vaswani** _[∗]_ **Noam Shazeer** _[∗]_ **Niki Parmar** _[∗]_ **Jakob Uszkoreit** _[∗]_ Google Brain Google Brain Google Research Google Research avaswani@google.com noam@google.com nikip@google.com usz@google.com 

**Llion Jones** _[∗]_ **Aidan N. Gomez** _[∗†]_ **Łukasz Kaiser** _[∗]_ Google Research Universityof Toronto Google Brain llion@google.com aidan@cs.toronto.edu lukaszkaiser@google.com 

**Illia Polosukhin** _[∗‡]_ 


illia.polosukhin@gmail.com


## **Abstract** 

The dominant sequence transduction models are basedon complex recurrentor convolutional neural networks that includean encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder throughan attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solelyon attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experimentson two machine translation tasks show these modelsto be superiorin quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less timeto train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEUon the WMT 2014 Englishto-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU scoreof 41.8 after training for 3.5 dayson eight GPUs, a small fractionof the training costsof the best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes wellto other tasksby applyingit successfullyto English constituency parsing both with large and limited training data. 

> _∗_ Equal contribution. Listing order is random. Jakob proposed replacing RNNs with self-attention and started the effortto evaluate this idea. Ashish, with Illia, designed and implemented the first Transformer models and has been crucially involvedin every aspectof this work. Noam proposed scaled dot-product attention, multi-head attention and the parameter-free position representation and became the other person involvedin nearly every detail. Niki designed, implemented, tuned and evaluated countless model variantsin our original codebase and tensor2tensor. Llion also experimented with novel model variants, was responsible for our initial codebase, and efficient inference and visualizations. Lukasz and Aidan spent countless long days designing various partsof and implementing tensor2tensor, replacing our earlier codebase, greatly improving results and massively accelerating our research. 

> _†_ Work performed whileat Google Brain. 

> _‡_ Work performed whileat Google Research. 

31st Conferenceon Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017), Long Beach, CA, USA. 

## **1 Introduction** 

Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory [13] and gated recurrent [7] neural networksin particular, have been firmly establishedas stateof the art approachesin sequence modeling and transduction problems suchas language modeling and machine translation [35, 2, 5]. Numerous efforts have since continuedto push the boundariesof recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures [38, 24, 15]. 

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positionsof the input and output sequences. Aligning the positionsto stepsin computation time, they generate a sequenceof hidden states _ht_ , as a functionof the previous hidden state _ht−_ 1 and the input for position _t_ . This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes criticalat longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples. Recent work has achieved significant improvementsin computational efficiency through factorization tricks [21] and conditional computation [32], while also improving model performancein caseof the latter. The fundamental constraintof sequential computation, however, remains. 

Attention mechanisms have becomean integral partof compelling sequence modeling and transduction modelsin various tasks, allowing modelingof dependencies without regardto their distancein the inputor output sequences [2, 19]. In all but a few cases [27], however, such attention mechanisms are usedin conjunction with a recurrent network. 

In this workwe propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirelyon an attention mechanismto draw global dependencies between input and output. The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new stateof the artin translation quality after being trained foras littleas twelve hourson eight P100 GPUs. 

## **2 Background** 

The goalof reducing sequential computation also forms the foundationof the Extended Neural GPU [16], ByteNet [18] and ConvS2S [9], allof which use convolutional neural networksas basic building block, computing hidden representationsin parallel for all input and output positions. In these models, the numberof operations requiredto relate signals from two arbitrary inputor output positions growsin the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makesit more difficultto learn dependencies between distant positions [12]. In the Transformer this is reducedto a constant numberof operations, albeitat the costof reduced effective resolution dueto averaging attention-weighted positions, an effectwe counteract with Multi-Head Attentionas describedin section 3.2. 

Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention is an attention mechanism relating different positionsof a single sequencein orderto compute a representationof the sequence. Self-attention has been used successfullyin a varietyof tasks including reading comprehension, abstractive summarization, textual entailment and learning task-independent sentence representations [4, 27, 28, 22]. 

End-to-end memory networks are basedon a recurrent attention mechanism insteadof sequencealigned recurrence and have been shownto perform wellon simple-language question answering and language modeling tasks [34]. 

To the bestof our knowledge, however, the Transformer is the first transduction model relying entirelyon self-attentionto compute representationsof its input and output without using sequencealigned RNNsor convolution. In the following sections, we will describe the Transformer, motivate self-attention and discuss its advantages over models suchas [17, 18] and [9]. 

## **3 Model Architecture** 

Most competitive neural sequence transduction models havean encoder-decoder structure [5, 2, 35]. Here, the encoder mapsan input sequenceof symbol representations ( _x_ 1 _, ..., xn_ ) to a sequenceof continuous representations **z** = ( _z_ 1 _, ..., zn_ ). Given **z** , the decoder then generatesan output sequence ( _y_ 1 _, ..., ym_ ) of symbols one elementat a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive [10], consuming the previously generated symbolsas additional input when generating the next. 

**==> picture [220x 323] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 1: The Transformer - model architecture. 

The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder, shownin the left and right halvesof Figure 1, respectively. 

## **3.1 Encoder and Decoder Stacks** 

**Encoder:** The encoder is composedof a stackof _N_ = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, positionwise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection [11] around eachof the two sub-layers, followedby layer normalization [1]. That is, the outputof each sub-layer is LayerNorm( _x_ + Sublayer( _x_ )), where Sublayer( _x_ ) is the function implementedby the sub-layer itself. To facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layersin the model, as wellas the embedding layers, produce outputsof dimension _d_ model = 512. 

**Decoder:** The decoder is also composedof a stackof _N_ = 6 identical layers. In additionto the two sub-layersin each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the outputof the encoder stack. Similarto the encoder, we employ residual connections around eachof the sub-layers, followedby layer normalization. We also modify the self-attention sub-layerin the decoder stackto prevent positions from attendingto subsequent positions. This masking, combined with fact that the output embeddings are offsetby one position, ensures that the predictions for position _i_ can depend onlyon the known outputsat positions less than _i_ . 

## **3.2 Attention** 

An attention function can be describedas mapping a query and a setof key-value pairsto an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computedas a weighted sum 

Scaled Dot-Product Attention 

**==> picture [66x 128] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [88x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
Multi-Head Attention<br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

**==> picture [122x 186] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 2: (left) Scaled Dot-Product Attention. (right) Multi-Head Attention consistsof several attention layers runningin parallel. 

of the values, where the weight assignedto each value is computedby a compatibility functionof the query with the corresponding key. 

## **3.2.1 Scaled Dot-Product Attention** 

We call our particular attention "Scaled Dot-Product Attention" (Figure 2). The input consistsof queries and keysof dimension _dk_ , and valuesof dimension _dv_ . We compute the dot productsof the query with all keys, divide eachby _[√] dk_ , and apply a softmax functionto obtain the weightson the values. 

In practice, we compute the attention functionon a setof queries simultaneously, packed together into a matrix _Q_ . The keys and values are also packed together into matrices _K_ and _V_ . We compute the matrixof outputsas: 

**==> picture [286x 26] intentionally omitted <==**

The two most commonly used attention functions are additive attention [2], and dot-product (multiplicative) attention. Dot-product attention is identicalto our algorithm, except for the scaling factorof 1[Additive attention computes the compatibility function using a feed-forward network with] ~~_√_~~ _dk_[.] a single hidden layer. While the two are similarin theoretical complexity, dot-product attention is much faster and more space-efficientin practice, sinceit can be implemented using highly optimized matrix multiplication code. 

While for small valuesof _dk_ the two mechanisms perform similarly, additive attention outperforms dot product attention without scaling for larger valuesof _dk_ [3]. We suspect that for large valuesof _dk_ , the dot products grow largein magnitude, pushing the softmax function into regions whereit has extremely small gradients[4] . To counteract this effect, we scale the dot productsby ~~_√_~~ 1 _dk_[.] 

## **3.2.2 Multi-Head Attention** 

Insteadof performing a single attention function with _d_ model-dimensional keys, values and queries, we foundit beneficialto linearly project the queries, keys and values _h_ times with different, learned linear projectionsto _dk_ , _dk_ and _dv_ dimensions, respectively. On eachof these projected versionsof queries, keys and valueswe then perform the attention functionin parallel, yielding _dv_ -dimensional 

> 4To illustrate why the dot products get large, assume that the componentsof _q_ and _k_ are independent random variables with mean 0 and variance 1. Then their dot product, _q · k_ =[�] _[d] i_ =1 _[k][q][i][k][i]_[, has mean][ 0][ and variance] _[ d][k]_[.] 

output values. These are concatenated and once again projected, resultingin the final values, as depictedin Figure 2. 

Multi-head attention allows the modelto jointly attendto information from different representation subspacesat different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this. 

MultiHead( _Q, K, V_ ) = Concat(head1 _, ...,_ headh) _W[O]_ 

**==> picture [202x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

Where the projections are parameter matrices _Wi[Q] ∈_ R _[d]_[model] _[×][d][k]_ , _Wi[K] ∈_ R _[d]_[model] _[×][d][k]_ , _Wi[V] ∈_ R _[d]_[model] _[×][d][v]_ and _W[O] ∈_ R _[hd][v][×][d]_[model] . 

In this workwe employ _h_ = 8 parallel attention layers, or heads. For eachof thesewe use _dk_ = _dv_ = _d_ model _/h_ = 64. Dueto the reduced dimensionof each head, the total computational cost is similarto thatof single-head attention with full dimensionality. 

## **3.2.3 Applicationsof Attentionin our Model** 

The Transformer uses multi-head attentionin three different ways: 

- In "encoder-decoder attention" layers, the queries come from the previous decoder layer, and the memory keys and values come from the outputof the encoder. This allows every positionin the decoderto attend over all positionsin the input sequence. This mimics the typical encoder-decoder attention mechanismsin sequence-to-sequence models suchas [38, 2, 9]. 

- The encoder contains self-attention layers. In a self-attention layer allof the keys, values and queries come from the same place, in this case, the outputof the previous layerin the encoder. Each positionin the encoder can attendto all positionsin the previous layerof the encoder. 

- Similarly, self-attention layersin the decoder allow each positionin the decoderto attendto all positionsin the decoderup to and including that position. We needto prevent leftward information flowin the decoderto preserve the auto-regressive property. We implement this insideof scaled dot-product attentionby masking out (settingto _−∞_ ) all valuesin the inputof the softmax which correspondto illegal connections. See Figure 2. 

## **3.3 Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks** 

In additionto attention sub-layers, eachof the layersin our encoder and decoder contains a fully connected feed-forward network, which is appliedto each position separately and identically. This consistsof two linear transformations with a ReLU activationin between. 

## FFN( _x_ ) = max(0 _, xW_ 1 + _b_ 1) _W_ 2 + _b_ 2 

**==> picture [12x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

While the linear transformations are the same across different positions, they use different parameters from layerto layer. Another wayof describing this is as two convolutions with kernel size 1. The dimensionalityof input and output is _d_ model = 512, and the inner-layer has dimensionality _dff_ = 2048. 

## **3.4 Embeddings and Softmax** 

Similarlyto other sequence transduction models, we use learned embeddingsto convert the input tokens and output tokensto vectorsof dimension _d_ model. We also use the usual learned linear transformation and softmax functionto convert the decoder outputto predicted next-token probabilities. In our model, we share the same weight matrix between the two embedding layers and the pre-softmax linear transformation, similarto [30]. In the embedding layers, we multiply those weightsby _[√] d_ model. 

Table 1: Maximum path lengths, per-layer complexity and minimum numberof sequential operations for different layer types. _n_ is the sequence length, _d_ is the representation dimension, _k_ is the kernel sizeof convolutions and _r_ the sizeof the neighborhoodin restricted self-attention. 

|Layer Type|Complexity per Layer|Sequential|Maximum Path Length|
|---|---|---|---|
|||Operations||
|Self-Attention|_O_(_n_2 _· d_)|_O_(1)|_O_(1)|
|Recurrent|_O_(_n · d_2)|_O_(_n_)|_O_(_n_)|
|Convolutional|_O_(_k · n · d_2)|_O_(1)|_O_(_logk_(_n_))|
|Self-Attention (restricted)|_O_(_r · n · d_)|_O_(1)|_O_(_n/r_)|

## **3.5 Positional Encoding** 

Since our model containsno recurrence andno convolution, in order for the modelto make useof the orderof the sequence, we must inject some information about the relativeor absolute positionof the tokensin the sequence. To this end, we add "positional encodings" to the input embeddingsat the bottomsof the encoder and decoder stacks. The positional encodings have the same dimension _d_ modelas the embeddings, so that the two can be summed. There are many choicesof positional encodings, learned and fixed [9]. 

In this work, we use sine and cosine functionsof different frequencies: 

**==> picture [162x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

where _pos_ is the position and _i_ is the dimension. That is, each dimensionof the positional encoding correspondsto a sinusoid. The wavelengths form a geometric progression from 2 _π_to 10000 _·_ 2 _π_ . We chose this function becausewe hypothesizedit would allow the modelto easily learnto attendby relative positions, since for any fixed offset _k_ , _PEpos_ + _k_ can be representedas a linear functionof _PEpos_ . 

We also experimented with using learned positional embeddings [9] instead, and found that the two versions produced nearly identical results (see Table 3 row (E)). We chose the sinusoidal version becauseit may allow the modelto extrapolateto sequence lengths longer than the ones encountered during training. 

## **4 Why Self-Attention** 

In this sectionwe compare various aspectsof self-attention layersto the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequenceof symbol representations ( _x_ 1 _, ..., xn_ ) to another sequenceof equal length ( _z_ 1 _, ..., zn_ ), with _xi, zi ∈_ R _[d]_ , suchas a hidden layerin a typical sequence transduction encoderor decoder. Motivating our useof self-attentionwe consider three desiderata. 

One is the total computational complexity per layer. Another is the amountof computation that can be parallelized, as measuredby the minimum numberof sequential operations required. 

The third is the path length between long-range dependenciesin the network. Learning long-range dependencies is a key challengein many sequence transduction tasks. One key factor affecting the abilityto learn such dependencies is the lengthof the paths forward and backward signals haveto traversein the network. The shorter these paths between any combinationof positionsin the input and output sequences, the easierit is to learn long-range dependencies [12]. Hencewe also compare the maximum path length between any two input and output positionsin networks composedof the different layer types. 

As notedin Table 1, a self-attention layer connects all positions with a constant numberof sequentially executed operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires _O_ ( _n_ ) sequential operations. In termsof computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence 

length _n_ is smaller than the representation dimensionality _d_ , which is most often the case with sentence representations usedby state-of-the-art modelsin machine translations, suchas word-piece [38] and byte-pair [31] representations. To improve computational performance for tasks involving very long sequences, self-attention could be restrictedto considering only a neighborhoodof size _r_in the input sequence centered around the respective output position. This would increase the maximum path lengthto _O_ ( _n/r_ ). We planto investigate this approach furtherin future work. 

A single convolutional layer with kernel width _k < n_ does not connect all pairsof input and output positions. Doingso requires a stackof _O_ ( _n/k_ ) convolutional layersin the caseof contiguous kernels, or _O_ ( _logk_ ( _n_ )) in the caseof dilated convolutions [18], increasing the lengthof the longest paths between any two positionsin the network. Convolutional layers are generally more expensive than recurrent layers, by a factorof _k_ . Separable convolutions [6], however, decrease the complexity considerably, to _O_ ( _k · n · d_ + _n · d_[2] ). Even with _k_ = _n_ , however, the complexityof a separable convolution is equalto the combinationof a self-attention layer and a point-wise feed-forward layer, the approachwe takein our model. 

As side benefit, self-attention could yield more interpretable models. We inspect attention distributions from our models and present and discuss examplesin the appendix. Not onlydo individual attention heads clearly learnto perform different tasks, many appearto exhibit behavior relatedto the syntactic and semantic structureof the sentences. 

## **5 Training** 

This section describes the training regime for our models. 

## **5.1 Training Data and Batching** 

We trainedon the standard WMT 2014 English-German dataset consistingof about 4.5 million sentence pairs. Sentences were encoded using byte-pair encoding [3], which has a shared sourcetarget vocabularyof about 37000 tokens. For English-French, we used the significantly larger WMT 2014 English-French dataset consistingof 36M sentences and split tokens into a 32000 word-piece vocabulary [38]. Sentence pairs were batched togetherby approximate sequence length. Each training batch contained a setof sentence pairs containing approximately 25000 source tokens and 25000 target tokens. 

## **5.2 Hardware and Schedule** 

We trained our modelson one machine with 8 NVIDIA P100 GPUs. For our base models using the hyperparameters described throughout the paper, each training step took about 0.4 seconds. We trained the base models for a totalof 100,000 stepsor 12 hours. For our big models,(describedon the bottom lineof table 3), step time was 1.0 seconds. The big models were trained for 300,000 steps (3.5 days). 

## **5.3 Optimizer** 

We used the Adam optimizer [20] with _β_ 1 = 0 _._ 9, _β_ 2 = 0 _._ 98 and _ϵ_ = 10 _[−]_[9] . We varied the learning rate over the courseof training, accordingto the formula: 

**==> picture [343x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

This correspondsto increasing the learning rate linearly for the first _warmup_  steps_ training steps, and decreasingit thereafter proportionallyto the inverse square rootof the step number. We used _warmup_  steps_ = 4000. 

## **5.4 Regularization** 

We employ three typesof regularization during training: 

Table 2: The Transformer achieves better BLEU scores than previous state-of-the-art modelson the English-to-German and English-to-French newstest2014 testsat a fractionof the training cost. 

|Model|BLEU<br>EN-DE<br>EN-FR|Training Cost (FLOPs)|
|---|---|---|
|||EN-DE<br>EN-FR|
|ByteNet [18]<br>Deep-Att + PosUnk [39]<br>GNMT + RL [38]<br>ConvS2S [9]<br>MoE[32]|23.75<br>39.2<br>24.6<br>39.92<br>25.16<br>40.46<br>26.03<br>40.56|1_._0_·_1020<br>2_._3_·_1019<br>1_._4_·_1020<br>9_._6_·_1018<br>1_._5_·_1020<br>2_._0_·_1019<br>1_._2_·_1020|
|Deep-Att + PosUnk Ensemble [39]<br>GNMT + RL Ensemble [38]<br>ConvS2S Ensemble[9]|40.4<br>26.30<br>41.16<br>26.36<br>**41.29**|8_._0_·_1020<br>1_._8_·_1020<br>1_._1_·_1021<br>7_._7_·_1019<br>1_._2_·_1021|
|Transformer (base model)<br>Transformer (big)|27.3<br>38.1<br>**28.4**<br>**41.8**|**3****_._3****_·_ 1018**<br>2_._3_·_1019|

**Residual Dropout** We apply dropout [33] to the outputof each sub-layer, beforeit is addedto the sub-layer input and normalized. In addition, we apply dropoutto the sumsof the embeddings and the positional encodingsin both the encoder and decoder stacks. For the base model, we use a rateof _Pdrop_ = 0 _._ 1. 

**Label Smoothing** During training, we employed label smoothingof value _ϵls_ = 0 _._ 1 [36]. This hurts perplexity, as the model learnsto be more unsure, but improves accuracy and BLEU score. 

## **6 Results** 

## **6.1 Machine Translation** 

On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model (Transformer (big) in Table 2) outperforms the best previously reported models (including ensembles) by more than 2 _._ 0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU scoreof 28 _._ 4. The configurationof this model is listedin the bottom lineof Table 3. Training took 3 _._ 5 dayson 8 P100 GPUs. Even our base model surpasses all previously published models and ensembles, at a fractionof the training costof anyof the competitive models. 

On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our big model achieves a BLEU scoreof 41 _._ 0, outperforming allof the previously published single models, at less than 1 _/_ 4 the training costof the previous state-of-the-art model. The Transformer (big) model trained for English-to-French used dropout rate _Pdrop_ = 0 _._ 1, insteadof 0 _._ 3. 

For the base models, we used a single model obtainedby averaging the last 5 checkpoints, which were writtenat 10-minute intervals. For the big models, we averaged the last 20 checkpoints. We used beam search with a beam sizeof 4 and length penalty _α_ = 0 _._ 6 [38]. These hyperparameters were chosen after experimentationon the development set. We set the maximum output length during inferenceto input length + 50, but terminate early when possible [38]. 

Table 2 summarizes our results and compares our translation quality and training coststo other model architectures from the literature. We estimate the numberof floating point operations usedto train a modelby multiplying the training time, the numberof GPUs used, andan estimateof the sustained single-precision floating-point capacityof each GPU[5] . 

## **6.2 Model Variations** 

To evaluate the importanceof different componentsof the Transformer, we varied our base modelin different ways, measuring the changein performanceon English-to-German translationon the 

> 5We used valuesof 2.8, 3.7, 6.0 and 9.5 TFLOPS for K80, K40, M40 and P100, respectively. 

Table 3: Variationson the Transformer architecture. Unlisted values are identicalto thoseof the base model. All metrics areon the English-to-German translation development set, newstest2013. Listed perplexities are per-wordpiece, accordingto our byte-pair encoding, and should not be comparedto per-word perplexities. 

||_N_<br>_d_model<br>_d_ff<br>_h_<br>_dk_<br>_dv_<br>_Pdrop_<br>_ϵls_<br>train<br>steps|PPL<br>BLEU<br>params<br>(dev)<br>(dev)<br>_×_106|
|---|---|---|
|base|6<br>512<br>2048<br>8<br>64<br>64<br>0.1<br>0.1<br>100K|4.92<br>25.8<br>65|
|(A)|1<br>512<br>512<br>4<br>128<br>128<br>16<br>32<br>32<br>32<br>16<br>16|5.29<br>24.9<br>5.00<br>25.5<br>4.91<br>25.8<br>5.01<br>25.4|
|(B)|16<br>32|5.16<br>25.1<br>58<br>5.01<br>25.4<br>60|
|(C)|2<br>4<br>8<br>256<br>32<br>32<br>1024<br>128<br>128<br>1024<br>4096|6.11<br>23.7<br>36<br>5.19<br>25.3<br>50<br>4.88<br>25.5<br>80<br>5.75<br>24.5<br>28<br>4.66<br>26.0<br>168<br>5.12<br>25.4<br>53<br>4.75<br>26.2<br>90|
|(D)|0.0<br>0.2<br>0.0<br>0.2|5.77<br>24.6<br>4.95<br>25.5<br>4.67<br>25.3<br>5.47<br>25.7|
|(E)|positional embeddinginsteadof sinusoids|4.92<br>25.7|
|big|6<br>1024<br>4096<br>16<br>0.3<br>300K|**4.33**<br>**26.4**<br>213|

development set, newstest2013. We used beam searchas describedin the previous section, butno checkpoint averaging. We present these resultsin Table 3. 

In Table 3 rows (A), we vary the numberof attention heads and the attention key and value dimensions, keeping the amountof computation constant, as describedin Section 3.2.2. While single-head attention is 0.9 BLEU worse than the best setting, quality also drops off with too many heads. 

In Table 3 rows (B), we observe that reducing the attention key size _dk_ hurts model quality. This suggests that determining compatibility is not easy and that a more sophisticated compatibility function than dot product may be beneficial. We further observein rows (C) and (D) that, as expected, bigger models are better, and dropout is very helpfulin avoiding over-fitting. In row (E) we replace our sinusoidal positional encoding with learned positional embeddings [9], and observe nearly identical resultsto the base model. 

## **6.3 English Constituency Parsing** 

To evaluateif the Transformer can generalizeto other taskswe performed experimentson English constituency parsing. This task presents specific challenges: the output is subjectto strong structural constraints and is significantly longer than the input. Furthermore, RNN sequence-to-sequence models have not been ableto attain state-of-the-art resultsin small-data regimes [37]. 

We trained a 4-layer transformer with _dmodel_ = 1024on the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) portionof the Penn Treebank [25], about 40K training sentences. We also trainedit in a semi-supervised setting, using the larger high-confidence and BerkleyParser corpora from with approximately 17M sentences [37]. We used a vocabularyof 16K tokens for the WSJ only setting and a vocabularyof 32K tokens for the semi-supervised setting. 

We performed only a small numberof experimentsto select the dropout, both attention and residual (section 5.4), learning rates and beam sizeon the Section 22 development set, all other parameters remained unchanged from the English-to-German base translation model. During inference, we 

Table 4: The Transformer generalizes wellto English constituency parsing (Results areon Section 23of WSJ) 

|**Parser**|**Training**|**WSJ 23 F1**|
|---|---|---|
|Vinyals & Kaiserel al. (2014) [37]<br>Petrovet al. (2006) [29]<br>Zhuet al. (2013) [40]<br>Dyeret al. (2016) [8]|WSJ only, discriminative<br>WSJ only, discriminative<br>WSJ only, discriminative<br>WSJ only,discriminative|88.3<br>90.4<br>90.4<br>91.7|
|Transformer(4 layers)|WSJ only,discriminative|91.3|
|Zhuet al. (2013) [40]<br>Huang & Harper (2009) [14]<br>McCloskyet al. (2006) [26]<br>Vinyals & Kaiserel al. (2014) [37]|semi-supervised<br>semi-supervised<br>semi-supervised<br>semi-supervised|91.3<br>91.3<br>92.1<br>92.1|
|Transformer(4 layers)|semi-supervised|92.7|
|Luonget al. (2015) [23]<br>Dyeret al. (2016) [8]|multi-task<br>generative|93.0<br>93.3|

increased the maximum output lengthto input length + 300. We used a beam sizeof 21 and _α_ = 0 _._ 3 for both WSJ only and the semi-supervised setting. 

Our resultsin Table 4 show that despite the lackof task-specific tuning our model performs surprisingly well, yielding better results than all previously reported models with the exceptionof the Recurrent Neural Network Grammar [8]. 

In contrastto RNN sequence-to-sequence models [37], the Transformer outperforms the BerkeleyParser [29] even when training onlyon the WSJ training setof 40K sentences. 

## **7 Conclusion** 

In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirelyon attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly usedin encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. 

For translation tasks, the Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures basedon recurrentor convolutional layers. On both WMT 2014 English-to-German and WMT 2014 English-to-French translation tasks, we achieve a new stateof the art. In the former task our best model outperforms even all previously reported ensembles. 

We are excited about the futureof attention-based models and planto apply themto other tasks. We planto extend the Transformerto problems involving input and output modalities other than text andto investigate local, restricted attention mechanismsto efficiently handle large inputs and outputs suchas images, audio and video. Making generation less sequential is another research goalsof ours. 

The codewe usedto train and evaluate our models is availableat https://github.com/ tensorflow/tensor2tensor . 

**Acknowledgements** We are gratefulto Nal Kalchbrenner and Stephan Gouws for their fruitful comments, corrections and inspiration. 

## **References** 

- [1] Jimmy Lei Ba, Jamie Ryan Kiros, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Layer normalization. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.06450_ , 2016. 

- [2] Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translationby jointly learningto align and translate. _CoRR_ , abs/1409.0473, 2014. 

- [3] Denny Britz, Anna Goldie, Minh-Thang Luong, and Quoc V. Le. Massive explorationof neural machine translation architectures. _CoRR_ , abs/1703.03906, 2017. 

- [4] Jianpeng Cheng, Li Dong, and Mirella Lapata. Long short-term memory-networks for machine reading. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1601.06733_ , 2016. 

- [5] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart van Merrienboer, Caglar Gulcehre, Fethi Bougares, Holger Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. Learning phrase representations using rnn encoder-decoder for statistical machine translation. _CoRR_ , abs/1406.1078, 2014. 

- [6] Francois Chollet. Xception: Deep learning with depthwise separable convolutions. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.02357_ , 2016. 

- [7] Junyoung Chung, Çaglar Gülçehre, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Empirical evaluationof gated recurrent neural networkson sequence modeling. _CoRR_ , abs/1412.3555, 2014. 

- [8] Chris Dyer, Adhiguna Kuncoro, Miguel Ballesteros, and Noah A. Smith. Recurrent neural network grammars. In _Proc. of NAACL_ , 2016. 

- [9] Jonas Gehring, Michael Auli, David Grangier, Denis Yarats, and Yann N. Dauphin. Convolutional sequenceto sequence learning. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.03122v2_ , 2017. 

- [10] Alex Graves. Generating sequences with recurrent neural networks. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1308.0850_ , 2013. 

- [11] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In _Proceedingsof the IEEE Conferenceon Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition_ , pages 770–778, 2016. 

- [12] Sepp Hochreiter, Yoshua Bengio, Paolo Frasconi, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Gradient flowin recurrent nets: the difficultyof learning long-term dependencies, 2001. 

- [13] Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. Long short-term memory. _Neural computation_ , 9(8):1735–1780, 1997. 

- [14] Zhongqiang Huang and Mary Harper. Self-training PCFG grammars with latent annotations across languages. In _Proceedingsof the 2009 Conferenceon Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing_ , pages 832–841. ACL, August 2009. 

- [15] Rafal Jozefowicz, Oriol Vinyals, Mike Schuster, Noam Shazeer, and Yonghui Wu. Exploring the limitsof language modeling. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.02410_ , 2016. 

- [16] Łukasz Kaiser and Samy Bengio. Can active memory replace attention? In _Advancesin Neural Information Processing Systems, (NIPS)_ , 2016. 

- [17] Łukasz Kaiser and Ilya Sutskever. Neural GPUs learn algorithms. In _International Conferenceon Learning Representations (ICLR)_ , 2016. 

- [18] Nal Kalchbrenner, Lasse Espeholt, Karen Simonyan, Aaron van den Oord, Alex Graves, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Neural machine translationin linear time. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.10099v2_ , 2017. 

- [19] Yoon Kim, Carl Denton, Luong Hoang, and Alexander M. Rush. Structured attention networks. In _International Conferenceon Learning Representations_ , 2017. 

- [20] Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In _ICLR_ , 2015. 

- [21] Oleksii Kuchaiev and Boris Ginsburg. Factorization tricks for LSTM networks. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.10722_ , 2017. 

- [22] Zhouhan Lin, Minwei Feng, Cicero Nogueira dos Santos, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, Bowen Zhou, and Yoshua Bengio. A structured self-attentive sentence embedding. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.03130_ , 2017. 

- [23] Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V. Le, Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Lukasz Kaiser. Multi-task sequenceto sequence learning. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06114_ , 2015. 

- [24] Minh-Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D Manning. Effective approachesto attentionbased neural machine translation. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.04025_ , 2015. 

- [25] Mitchell P Marcus, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz, and Beatrice Santorini. Building a large annotated corpusof english: The penn treebank. _Computational linguistics_ , 19(2):313–330, 1993. 

- [26] David McClosky, Eugene Charniak, and Mark Johnson. Effective self-training for parsing. In _Proceedingsof the Human Language Technology Conferenceof the NAACL, Main Conference_ , pages 152–159. ACL, June 2006. 

- [27] Ankur Parikh, Oscar Täckström, Dipanjan Das, and Jakob Uszkoreit. A decomposable attention model. In _Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing_ , 2016. 

- [28] Romain Paulus, Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. A deep reinforced model for abstractive summarization. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.04304_ , 2017. 

- [29] Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, and Dan Klein. Learning accurate, compact, and interpretable tree annotation. In _Proceedingsof the 21st International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meetingof the ACL_ , pages 433–440. ACL, July 2006. 

- [30] Ofir Press and Lior Wolf. Using the output embeddingto improve language models. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.05859_ , 2016. 

- [31] Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. Neural machine translationof rare words with subword units. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.07909_ , 2015. 

- [32] Noam Shazeer, Azalia Mirhoseini, Krzysztof Maziarz, Andy Davis, Quoc Le, Geoffrey Hinton, and Jeff Dean. Outrageously large neural networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.06538_ , 2017. 

- [33] Nitish Srivastava, Geoffrey E Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Dropout: a simple wayto prevent neural networks from overfitting. _Journalof Machine Learning Research_ , 15(1):1929–1958, 2014. 

- [34] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Arthur Szlam, Jason Weston, and Rob Fergus. End-to-end memory networks. In C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, D. D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, and R. Garnett, editors, _Advancesin Neural Information Processing Systems 28_ , pages 2440–2448. Curran Associates, Inc., 2015. 

- [35] Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc VV Le. Sequenceto sequence learning with neural networks. In _Advancesin Neural Information Processing Systems_ , pages 3104–3112, 2014. 

- [36] Christian Szegedy, Vincent Vanhoucke, Sergey Ioffe, Jonathon Shlens, and Zbigniew Wojna. Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision. _CoRR_ , abs/1512.00567, 2015. 

- [37] Vinyals & Kaiser, Koo, Petrov, Sutskever, and Hinton. Grammaras a foreign language. In _Advancesin Neural Information Processing Systems_ , 2015. 

- [38] Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, etal. Google’s neural machine translation system: Bridging the gap between human and machine translation. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08144_ , 2016. 

- [39] Jie Zhou, Ying Cao, Xuguang Wang, Peng Li, and Wei Xu. Deep recurrent models with fast-forward connections for neural machine translation. _CoRR_ , abs/1606.04199, 2016. 

- [40] Muhua Zhu, Yue Zhang, Wenliang Chen, Min Zhang, and Jingbo Zhu. Fast and accurate shift-reduce constituent parsing. In _Proceedingsof the 51st Annual Meetingof the ACL (Volume 1: Long Papers)_ , pages 434–443. ACL, August 2013. 

## **Attention Visualizations** 

**==> picture [386x 203] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
It is in this spirit that a majorityof American governments have passed new laws since 2009 making the registrationor voting process more difficult . <EOS> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad><br>It is in this spirit that a majorityof American governments have passed new laws since 2009 making the registrationor voting process more difficult . <EOS> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad> <pad><br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 3: An exampleof the attention mechanism following long-distance dependenciesin the encoder self-attentionin layer 5of 6. Manyof the attention heads attendto a distant dependencyof the verb ‘making’, completing the phrase ‘making...more difficult’. Attentions here shown only for the word ‘making’. Different colors represent different heads. Best viewedin color. 

**==> picture [383x 458] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 4: Two attention heads, alsoin layer 5of 6, apparently involvedin anaphora resolution. Top: Full attentions for head 5. Bottom: Isolated attentions from just the word ‘its’ for attention heads 5 and 6. Note that the attentions are very sharp for this word. 

**==> picture [380x 435] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>The Law will never be perfect , but its application should be just - this is whatwe are missing , inmy opinion . <EOS> <pad><br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 5: Manyof the attention heads exhibit behaviour that seems relatedto the structureof the sentence. We give two such examples above, from two different heads from the encoder self-attentionat layer 5of 6. The heads clearly learnedto perform different tasks. 
