## **Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation** 

**Shi-Qi Yan**[1][*] **, Jia-Chen Gu**[2][*] **, Yun Zhu**[3] **, Zhen-Hua Ling**[1] 

1National Engineering Research Centerof Speech and Language Information Processing, Universityof Science and Technologyof China, Hefei, China 

2Departmentof Computer Science, Universityof California, Los Angeles 3Google DeepMind 

yansiki@mail.ustc.edu.cn, gujc@ucla.edu, yunzhu@google.com, zhling@ustc.edu.cn 

## **Abstract** 

Large language models (LLMs) inevitably exhibit hallucinations since the accuracyof generated texts cannot be secured solelyby the parametric knowledge they encapsulate. Although retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a practicable complementto LLMs, it relies heavilyon the relevanceof retrieved documents, raising concerns about how the model behavesif retrieval goes wrong. To this end, we propose the **C** orrective **R** etrieval **A** ugmented **G** eneration (CRAG) to improve the robustnessof generation. Specifically, a lightweight retrieval evaluator is designedto assess the overall qualityof retrieved documents for a query, returning a confidence degree basedon which different knowledge retrieval actions can be triggered. Since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return suboptimal documents, large-scale web searches are utilizedas an extension for augmenting the retrieval results. Besides, a decompose-thenrecompose algorithm is designed for retrieved documentsto selectively focuson key information and filter out irrelevant informationin them. CRAG is plug-and-play and can be seamlessly coupled with various RAG-based approaches. Experimentson four datasets covering short- and long-form generation tasks show that CRAG can significantly improve the performanceof RAG-based approaches.[1] 

## **1 Introduction** 

Large language models (LLMs) have attracted increasing attention and exhibited impressive abilitiesto understand instructions and generate fluent language texts (Brownet al., 2020; Ouyanget al., 2022; Touvronet al., 2023a). Nevertheless, LLMs inevitably manifest hallucinations (Jiet al., 2023) dueto their struggle with factual errors (Mallenet al., 2023; Minet al., 2023) and inabilityto secure the accuracyof generated texts solelyby 

> * Equal contribution. 

> 1The code is availableat github.com/HuskyInSalt/CRAG 

**==> picture [219x 244] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
Q:  What is Henry  Q:  Who was the screenwriter<br>Feilden's occupation? for Deathof a Batman?<br>Retriever<br>Accurate Documents Inaccurate Documents<br>Henry Feilden  Batman (1989 film):<br>(Conservative politician): of the murderof Bruce<br>Henry Master Feilden  Wayne's parents. When<br>wasan Conservative  Hamm's script was<br>Party politician… rewritten, …<br>Politician. Hamm.<br>✓ ✗<br>Generator Generator<br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 1: The examples show that a low-quality retriever is proneto introducing a substantial amountof irrelevant information, impeding the generators from acquiring accurate knowledge and potentially misleading them. 

the parametric knowledge they encapsulate (Zhanget al., 2023b; Muhlgayet al., 2023). 

Prior research has introduced the retrieval techniquesto incorporate the knowledge relevantto input and augment generation, as exemplifiedby retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Lewiset al., 2020). In this framework, the inputto models is augmentedby prepending relevant documents that are retrieved froman external knowledge corpus (Guuet al., 2020). While RAG servesas a practicable complementto LLMs, its effectiveness is contingent upon the relevance and accuracyof the retrieved documents (Liet al., 2022; Tanet al., 2022). The heavy relianceof generationon the retrieved knowledge raises significant concerns about the model’s behavior and performancein scenarios where retrieval may failor return inaccurate results (Shiet al., 2023). As Figure 1 shows that a low-quality retriever is proneto introducing a substantial amountof irrelevant information, impeding the models from acquiring accurate knowledge and potentially misleading them, resultingin issues suchas hallucinations (Zhanget al., 2023b). However, most conventional RAG approaches indiscriminately incorporate the retrieved documents, regardlessof whether these documents are relevantor not (Ronyet al., 2022). Furthermore, current methods mostly treat complete documentsas reference knowledge both during retrieval and utilization. But a considerable portionof the text within these retrieved documents is often nonessential for generation, which should not have been equally referredto and involvedin RAG. 

On accountof the above issues, this paper particularly studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results. A method named **C** orrective **R** etrieval- **A** ugmented **G** eneration (CRAG) is proposedto self-correct the resultsof retriever and improve the utilizationof documents for augmenting generation. A lightweight retrieval evaluator is designedto assess the overall qualityof retrieved documents for a query. This servesas a crucial componentin RAG, contributingto informative generationby reviewing and evaluating the relevance and reliabilityof the retrieved documents. A confidence degree is quantified basedon which different knowledge retrieval actionsof {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} can be triggered. For the latter two actions, large-scale web searches (Piktuset al., 2021; Komeiliet al., 2022) are integratedas a strategic extension, since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documentsin termsof scope and diversity. This augmentation is implementedto broaden the spectrumof retrieved information, harnessing the expansive and dynamic natureof the webto complement and enrich the initially obtained documents. Furthermore, to eliminate redundant contexts containedin retrieved documents that are unhelpful for RAG, a decompose-then-recompose algorithm is meticulously crafted throughout the retrieval and utilization process. This algorithm ensures the refinementof retrieved information, optimizing the extractionof key insights and minimizing the inclusionof non-essential elements, thereby enhancing the utilizationof retrieved data. 

CRAG is plug-and-play and experimentally implemented into RAG (Lewiset al., 2020) and Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) for demonstrating its adaptabilityto RAG-based approaches. Resultson 

four datasetsof PopQA (Mallenet al., 2023), Biography (Minet al., 2023), Pub Health (Zhanget al., 2023a), and Arc-Challenge (Bhakthavatsalamet al., 2021) show that CRAG can significantly improve the performanceof standard RAG and state-of-theart Self-RAG, demonstrating its generalizability across both short- and long-form generation tasks. To facilitate othersto reproduce our results, we will publish all source code later. 

In summary, our contributionsin this paper are three-fold: 1) This paper studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results and, to the bestof our knowledge, makes the first attemptto design corrective strategies for RAGto improve its robustness. 2) A plug-and-play method named CRAG is proposedto improve the abilityof automatic self-correction and efficient utilizationof retrieved documents. 3) Experimental results extensively demonstrate CRAG’s adaptabilityto RAG-based approaches and its generalizability across short- and long-form generation tasks. 

## **2 Related Work** 

**Hallucinationsof LLMs** Although LLMs have exhibited impressive abilitiesto understand instructions and generate fluent language texts (Banget al., 2023; Qinet al., 2023; Zhonget al., 2023), oneof the most severe issues that LLMs have still been struggling with is hallucinations. As many studies found (Tonmoyet al., 2024; Zhanget al., 2023b; Shusteret al., 2021), either outdated informationor incorrect knowledge that is activated would seriously resultin hallucinations. Large-scale unregulated training data collection, low proportionof high-quality sampling data, imperfectionof data allocationin the input space, and many other realistic factors could impact the LLMs and exacerbate the problems. Thus, it is obvious that the lackof accurate and specific knowledge can leadto misleadingor even inaccurate generation, which will severely hurt the experienceof usersin most practical applications. 

**Retrieval-Augmented Generation** RAG (Lewiset al., 2020; Guuet al., 2020) is regardedas a useful methodto address the issues above, which enhances the input questionsof generative LMs with retrieved documents. It usually providesan extra knowledge source from a specific corpus, i.e., Wikipedia, which greatly improves the performanceof LMsin a varietyof tasks, especiallyin the knowledge-intensive ones. The proposed 

methods generally leverage information retrievalto supply documents containing relevant knowledge for generative LLMs. Earlier studies adopt either sparseor dense retrieversat the front endof a pretrained language model that specializesin response generation. Despite this, the methods above usually ignore a question, _whatif the retrieval goes wrong?_ Since the purposeof introducing a retrieval is to secure that generative LMs can obtain relevant and accurate knowledge. If retrieved documents are irrelevant, the retrieval system can even exacerbate the factual error that LMs make. 

**Advanced RAG** Many advanced approaches have been developed from the original RAGin recent years (Zhanget al., 2024; Kimet al., 2024; Wanget al., 2024; Liuet al., 2024). Considering that retrieval is sometimes unnecessary for some queries, conversely, responses without retrieval are even more accuratein many situations. SelfRAG (Asaiet al., 2024) is proposedto selectively retrieve knowledge and introduce a critic modelto decide whetherto retrieve. Yoranet al. (2024) designedan NLI modelto identify the irrelevant context and improve robustness. SAIL (Luoet al., 2023) is tunedon instructionsto insert retrieved documents before instructions. While Toolformer (Schicket al., 2023) is pre-trained for calling APIs suchas Wikipedia. In addition, in some long-text generation tasks, external knowledge is needed more than once, and whento retrieve should be concerned. Jianget al. (2023) actively anticipate future content and decide when and whatto retrievein long-form generation. 

Compared with recent studies (Schicket al., 2023; Luoet al., 2023; Asaiet al., 2024) that are the most relevantto our work, a main difference should be highlighted. These approaches targeton exploiting retrievalas a useful toolto augment generationor whether retrieval is necessary, while this study particularly studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results. To the bestof our knowledge, this paper makes the first attemptto explore and design corrective strategies for RAGto improve its robustnessof generation. 

## **3 Task Formulation** 

Following previous work (Lewiset al., 2020; Asaiet al., 2024), given input _X_ andan accessible corpus containing a large amountof knowledge documents _C_ = _{d_ 1 _, ..., dN }_ , the system is expectedto generate the output _Y_ . The entire 

framework is usually divided into a retriever _R_ and a generator _G_ . The retriever _R_ aimsto retrieve the top- _K_ documents _D_ = _{dr_ 1 _, ..., drk }_ that are relevantto the input _X_ from the corpus _C_ . Basedon the input _X_ and the retrieved results _D_ , the generator _G_ is responsible for generating the output _Y_ . This framework can be formulatedas: 

**==> picture [183x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

It shows that the retriever and generator are seamlessly coupled, exhibiting low risk tolerance. Any unsuccessful retrieval can resultin an unsatisfactory response, regardlessof the impressive abilitiesof the generator. This is exactly the focusof this paperto improve the robustnessof generation. 

## **4 CRAG** 

## **4.1 Overviewof Model Inference** 

Figure 2 and Algorithm 1 presentan overviewof CRAGat inference, which designs corrective strategiesto improve the robustnessof generation. Givenan input query and the retrieved documents from any retriever, a lightweight retrieval evaluator is constructedto estimate the relevance scoreof retrieved documentsto the input query (Section 4.2). The relevance score is quantified into a totalof three confidence degrees and then triggered the corresponding actions: {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} (Section 4.3). If the action Correct is triggered, the retrieved documents will be refined into more precise knowledge strips. This refinement operation involves knowledge decomposition, filter, and recomposition (Section 4.4). If the action Incorrect is triggered, the retrieved documents will be discarded. Instead, web searches are resortedto and regardedas complementary knowledge sources for corrections (Section 4.5). Eventually, whenit cannot confidently make a corrector incorrect judgment, a soft and balanced action Ambiguous which combines bothof them is triggered. After optimizing the retrieval results, an arbitrary generative model can be adopted. 

## **4.2 Retrieval Evaluator** 

It is naturalto wonder whether the retrieved documents are accurateor not before using them, which is significant since irrelevantor misleading messages can be identifiedin this way. The accuracyof the retrieval evaluator undeniably plays a pivotal rolein shaping the overall system performance, asit influences the outcomesof subsequent processes. 

**==> picture [445x 329] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
Retrieved Documents<br>Retrievalx : Who was the screenwriter for  Deathof a Batman ? d1 d2<br>Retrieval Ask : If retrieved  Knowledge Refinement<br>Evaluator documents are<br>correctto  x ? d1 strip1 strip1<br>strip2 kin<br>…<br>d2 Decompose Filter stripk Recompose<br>stripk<br>Correct<br>Knowledge<br>Correction<br>Knowledge Searching<br>Ambiguous k1<br>xq: Deathof a Batman;  k2 kex<br>screenwriter; Wikipedia …<br>Incorrect Rewrite Web Select<br>Searchkn<br>Correct Ambiguous Incorrect<br>x + kinx + kin + kexx + kex<br>Generation<br>Generator<br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 2: An overviewof the proposed CRAGat inference. A retrieval evaluator is constructedto evaluate the relevanceof the retrieved documentsto the input, and estimate a confidence degree basedon which different knowledge retrieval actionsof {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} can be triggered. 

Our objective is to correct the retrieved documentsif they are irrelevant. Specifically, T5-large (Raffelet al., 2020) is adopted for initializing the retrieval evaluator and fine-tuned. Its parameter size is much smaller than the most current LLMs (Touvronet al., 2023a,b; Chowdheryet al., 2023; Anilet al., 2023; Brownet al., 2020; Ouyanget al., 2022; OpenAI, 2023). To ensure all experimental results were comparable with Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024), the same retrieval results through Contriever (Izacardet al., 2022) providedby Self-RAG were also adoptedin our experiments. The relevance signals for fine-tuning the evaluator can be collected from the existing datasets. For example, PopQA (Mallenet al., 2023) provides the golden subject wiki title from wikipedia for each question. We can use thatto track a not 100% relevant but rather high-quality passage. We utilized thatas the relevance signals for fine-tuning the retrieval evaluator.[2] On the other hand, the negative samples for fine-tuning were all randomly sampled from the retrieval results, which are rather similarto the input query but 

not relevant. More details about this fine-tuning step can be referredto in Appendix B.3. For every question, there are generally 10 documents retrieved. The question is concatenated with each single documentas the input, and the evaluator predicts the relevance score for each questiondocument pair individually. We also triedto prompt ChatGPTto identify the retrieval relevance for comparison, butit underperformsas elaboratedin Section 5.5. Basedon these calculated relevance scores, a final judgment is madeas to whether the retrieval is corrector not associated with the action trigger. In our proposed framework, the retrieval quality is evaluatedat a relatively low cost without the needto have accessto large and expensive LLMs. Compared with the critic modelof Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) that instructiontuned LLaMA-2 (7B), the evaluator designedin CRAG demonstrates the advantagesof being quite lightweight (0.77B). 

2https://huggingface.co/datasets/akariasai/PopQA 

**Algorithm 1:** CRAG Inference 

||**Algorithm 1:**CRAG Inference|
|---|---|
||**Require :**_E_ (Retrieval Evaluator),_W_ (Query Rewriter),_G_(Generator)|
||**Input**<br>**:**_x_(Input question),_D_ =_{d_1_, d_2_, ..., dk}_(Retrieved documents)|
||**Output :**_y_(Generated response)|
|**1**|_scorei_=_E_ evaluates the relevanceof each pair (_x_,_di_),_di ∈D_|
|**2 **|**Confdence**= Calculate and give a fnal judgment basedon {_score_1_, score_2_, ...scorek_}|
||// **Confidence** has 3 optional values: [CORRECT], [INCORRECT] or [AMBIGUOUS]|
|**3 **|**if**_Confdence ==_[CORRECT]**then**|
|**4**|Internal_Knowledge = Knowledge_Refne(_x_,_D_)|
|**5**|_k_= Internal_Knowledge|
|**6 **|**elseif**_Confdence ==_[INCORRECT]**then**|
|**7**|External_Knowledge = Web_Search(_W_ Rewrites_x_for searching)|
|**8**|_k_= External_Knowledge|
|**9 **|**elseif**_Confdence ==_[AMBIGUOUS]**then**|
|**10**|Internal_Knowledge = Knowledge_Refne(_x_,_D_)|
|**11**|External_Knowledge = Web_Search(_W_ Rewrites_x_for searching)|
|**12**|_k_= Internal_Knowledge + External_Knowledge|
|**13 **|**end**|
|**14**|_G_predicts_y_given_x_and_k_|

## **4.3 Action Trigger** 

To correct the irrelevant documents and refine the target documentsas needed, actions should be executed discriminately. Basedon the aforementioned confidence score for each retrieved document, three typesof actions are designed and triggered accordingly where the upper and lower thresholds are set. If the confidence score is higher than the upper threshold, the retrieved document is identifiedas Correct, while identifiedas Incorrectif below the lower threshold. Otherwise, a more soft and intermediate action, i.e., Ambiguous is executed. Each retrieved document is conducted individually and integrated eventually. 

**Correct** Here, a retrieval is assumed Correct when the confidence scoreof _at least one retrieved document_ is higher than the upper threshold. Ifso, it means that there are relevant documentsin the retrieved results, and the knowledge from the retrieval results is supposedto be more reliable and accurate. However, evenif a relevant document can be found, there is inevitably some noisy knowledge stripsin this document. To extract the most critical knowledge strips within this document, a knowledge refinement method is further designed which will be elaboratedin Section 4.4. 

**Incorrect** Besides, a retrieval is assumed Incorrect when the confidence scoresof _all retrieved documents_ are below the lower threshold. This indicates that all retrieved documents are 

considered irrelevant, which are unhelpful for generation. Once the knowledge from the retrieval results is judgedto be inaccurate, it is unwiseto still get stuckin it, which is likelyto resultin fabricated facts. Therefore, we needto seek new sourcesof knowledge for correction. Here, web search is introducedto search from the Internetas elaboratedin Section 4.5. This corrective action helps overcome the embarrassing challenge whereno reliable knowledge can be referredto. 

**Ambiguous** Except for the above two situations, the remaining will be assignedto an intermediate actionof Ambiguous. This generally occurs when the accuracyof the retrieval is hardto distinguish and the evaluator givesan intermediate score. Since the retrieval evaluator is not confidentin its judgment, both typesof processed knowledgein Correct and Incorrect are combinedto complement each other. Implementing such a moderating and soft strategy can significantly contributeto strengthening the robustness and resilienceof the system, fostering a more adaptable framework for optimal performance. 

**Discussion** Preliminary experimentsof employing only the Correct and Incorrect actions show that the efficacyof CRAG was easily affectedby the accuracyof the retrieval evaluator. The reason might be the distinct knowledge switch for all input cases, regardlessof the levelof confidencein their judgment. The designof the Ambiguous action 

significantly helpsto mitigate the dependenceon the accuracyof the retrieval evaluator. 

## **4.4 Knowledge Refinement** 

Given a retrieved relevant document, a decomposethen-recompose knowledge refinement method is designedto further extract the most critical knowledge stripsin it. To obtain fine-grained retrieval results, we segmented the retrieved results into internal strips. If a retrieved result is as shortas oneor two sentences, it is regardedas an individual strip, otherwise, retrieval documents are requiredto be split into smaller units which generally consistof a few sentences accordingto the total length. The scale is assumedto includean independent pieceof information, and the filtering is basedon the segments. Then, the retrieval evaluator finetunedin Section 4.2 is employedto calculate the relevance scoreof each knowledge strip. Basedon these scores, irrelevant knowledge strips are filtered out, while relevant ones are recomposed via concatenationin order, namely internal knowledge. 

## **4.5 Web Search** 

It would be more intelligentif a system itself could determine that its existing knowledge corpus could not solve the problem well and turnto additional external knowledge for help. On the contrary, evenif a system knows that the existing knowledge cannot solve the problem, but still sticksto the limited knowledge corpus, it will only give a fabricated factin the end, which is called hallucination.. Therefore, it is extremely importantto seek complementary external knowledgeif the retrieved results are all assumed irrelevant, andwe consider a system that knows whatit doesn’t know and whatit cannot answerto be more intelligent than one that clingsto limited knowledge and is incapableof seeking external knowledge. Since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documentsin termsof scope and diversity, large-scale web searches (Piktuset al., 2021; Komeiliet al., 2022) are integratedas a strategic extensionof RAG. Specifically, the inputs are rewritten into queries composedof keywordsby ChatGPTto mimic the daily usageof search engine. The prompt for rewriting is shownin Appendix A. In CRAG, a public and accessible commercial web search API is adoptedto generate a seriesof URL links 

for every query. 3 Considering that knowledge from large-scale web searches could introduce biasesor unreliable information, authoritative and regulated web pages like Wikipedia are preferred, which can significantly help mitigate these issues. Moreover, we utilize the URL linksto navigate web pages, transcribe their content, and employ the same knowledge refinement methodas Section 4.4to derive the relevant web knowledge, namely external knowledge. 

## **5 Experiments** 

We conducted experimentsto extensively demonstrate CRAG’s adaptabilityto RAG-based approaches and its generalizability across both shortand long-form generation tasks. 

## **5.1 Tasks, Datasets and Metrics** 

CRAG was evaluatedon four datasets, including **PopQA** (Mallenet al., 2023) ( _short_ -form generation), **Biography** (Minet al., 2023) ( _long_ -form generation), **PubHealth** (Zhanget al., 2023a) ( _trueor-false_ question), and **Arc-Challenge** (Bhakthavatsalamet al., 2021) ( _multiple-choice_ question). Following previous work, accuracy was adoptedas the evaluation metric for PopQA, PubHealth, and Arc-Challenge. FactScore (Minet al., 2023) was adoptedas the evaluation metric for Biography. Readers can referto Appendix B.1 for more details. The same metrics are used because our proposed method is comparableto previous studies, sincewe used the same retrieval resultsas previous work. The difference liesin that our motivation is to improve the retrieval qualityby correcting the retrieval results that the system judgesto be of low quality. This can be analogousto RAG’s augmentationto standalone parameterized language models andwe further augment RAG with corrective strategies. 

## **5.2 Baselines** 

We primarily compared CRAG with both approaches with and without retrieval, where the latter can be further split into standard RAG and latest advanced RAG, including: 

**Baselines without retrieval.** We evaluated some public LLMs, LLaMA2-7B,13B (Touvronet al., 2023b), instruction-tuned models, Alpaca-7B,13B (Duboiset al., 2023), and CoVE65 _B_ (Dhuliawalaet al., 2024) which introduces iterative engineering 

3In this study, Google Search API is utilized for searching. 

||PopQA|Bio|Pub|ARC|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Method|(Accuracy)|(FactScore)|(Accuracy)|(Accuracy)|
||_LMs trained with propriety data_||||
|LLaMA2-c13_B_|20.0|55.9|49.4|38.4|
|Ret-LLaMA2-c13_B_|51.8|79.9|52.1|37.9|
|ChatGPT|29.3|71.8|70.1|**75.3**|
|Ret-ChatGPT|50.8|-|54.7|**75.3**|
|Perplexity.ai|-|71.2|-|-|
||_Baselines without retrieval_||||
|LLaMA27_B_|14.7|44.5|34.2|21.8|
|Alpaca7_B_|23.6|45.8|49.8|45.0|
|LLaMA213_B_|14.7|53.4|29.4|29.4|
|Alpaca13_B_|24.4|50.2|55.5|54.9|
|CoVE65_B_|-|71.2|-|-|
||_Baselines with retrieval_||||
|LLaMA27_B_|38.2|78.0|30.0|48.0|
|Alpaca7_B_|46.7|76.6|40.2|48.0|
|SAIL|-|-|69.2|48.4|
|LLaMA213_B_|45.7|77.5|30.2|26.0|
|Alpaca13_B_|46.1|77.7|51.1|57.6|
||_LLaMA2-hf-7b_||||
|RAG|50.5|44.9|48.9|43.4|
|CRAG|**54.9**|47.7|**59.5**|**53.7**|
|Self-RAG*|29.0|32.2|0.7|23.9|
|Self-CRAG|49.0|**69.1**|0.6|27.9|
||_SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b_||||
|RAG|52.8|59.2|39.0|53.2|
|CRAG|59.8|74.1|**75.6**|68.6|
|Self-RAG|54.9|81.2|72.4|67.3|
|Self-CRAG|**61.8**|**86.2**|74.8|67.2|

Table 1: Overall evaluation resultson the test setsof four datasets. Results are separated basedon the generation LLMs. **Bold** numbers indicate the best performance among all methods and LLMs. **Gray-colored** bold scores indicate the best performance using a specific LLM. * indicates the results reproducedby us, otherwise results except ours are cited from their original papers. 

to improve the factualityof LLM generations. Propriety LLMs suchas LLaMA2-chat13 _B_ and ChatGPT are also included. 

**Standard RAG.** We evaluated the standard RAG (Lewiset al., 2020) wherean LM generates output given the query prepended with the top retrieved documents using the same retrieveras in our system. Herewe adopted several public instruction-tuned LLMs, including LLaMA27B, 13B (Touvronet al., 2023b), Alpaca-7B,13B (Duboiset al., 2023), as wellas LLaMA2-7B instruction-tunedin Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024). **Advanced RAG.** (1) SAIL (Luoet al., 2023) that instruction-tunedan LMon the Alpaca instructiontuning data with top retrieved documents inserted 

before instructions. (2) Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) that tuned the LLaMA2on the instructiontuning data comtaining several setsof reflection tokens which were labeledby GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023). (3) Following Asaiet al. (2024), we also cited the resultsof retrieval-augmented baselines trained with private data: Ret-ChatGPT and RetLLaMA-chat, which deploy the same augmentation technique above, as wellas perplexity.ai, an InstructGPT-based production search system. 

## **5.3 Results** 

Table 1 presents the resultson four datasets. The model coupling the proposed method with standard RAG is named CRAG and that coupling with SelfRAG is named Self-CRAG. Readers can referto 

Appendix B.3 for more implementation detailsof our proposed methods. From these results, we can conclude the following findings: 

_First, the proposed method can significantly improve the performanceof RAG and Self-RAG._ Specifically, as shownin table 1, CRAG outperformed RAGby marginsof 7.0% accuracyon PopQA, 14.9% FactScoreon Biography, 36.6% accuracyon PubHealth, and 15.4% accuracyon Arc-Challenge when basedon _SelfRAG-LLaMA27b_ , as wellas by marginsof 4.4% accuracyon PopQA, 2.8% FactScoreon Biography, and 10.3% on Arc-Challenge when basedon _LLaMA2hf-7b_ . Compared with the current state-of-theart Self-RAG, Self-CRAG outperformedit by marginsof 20.0% accuracyon PopQA, 36.9% FactScoreon Biography, and 4.0% accuracyon Arc-Challenge when basedon _LLaMA2-hf-7b_ , as wellas by marginsof 6.9% accuracyon PopQA, 5.0% FactScoreon Biography, and 2.4% accuracyon PubHealth, when basedon _SelfRAG-LLaMA27b_ . These results demonstrated the adaptabilityof CRAG which is plug-and-play and can be implemented into RAG-based approaches. 

_Second, the proposed method demonstrated great generalizability across a varietyof generation tasks._ In particular, these benchmarks reportedin Table 1 respectively represent different practical scenarios including short-form entity generation (PopQA), long-form generation (Biography), and closed-set tasks (PubHealth, ArcChallenge). These results verified the consistent effectivenessof CRAG. Its versatility across a spectrumof tasks underscores its robust capabilities and generalizability across diverse scenarios. 

_Third, the proposed method exhibited greater flexibilityin replacing the underlying LLM generator._ It can be seen that CRAG still showed competitive performance when the underlying LLMs was changed from _SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b_to _LLaMA2-hf-7b_ , while the performanceof SelfRAG dropped significantly, even underperforming the standard RAGon several benchmarks. The reason for these results is that Self-RAG needsto be instruction-tuned using humanor LLM annotated datato learnto output special critic tokensas needed, while this ability is not learnedin common LLMs. CRAG does not have any requirements for this ability. As you can imagine, when more advanced LLMs are availablein the future, they can be coupled with CRAG easily, while additional instruction tuning is still necessary for Self-RAG. 

LLaMA2-hf-7b SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b 

|CRAG|54.9|59.8|
|---|---|---|
|w/o. Correct|53.2|58.3|
|w/o. Incorrect|54.4|59.5|
|w/o. Ambiguous|54.0|59.0|
|Self-CRAG|49.0|61.8|
|w/o. Correct|43.6|59.6|
|w/o. Incorrect|47.7|60.8|
|w/o. Ambiguous|48.1|61.5|

Table 2: Ablation study for removing each single actionon the PopQA datasetin termsof accuracy. 

||LLaMA2-hf-7b|SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b|
|---|---|---|
|CRAG|54.9|59.8|
|w/o. refnement|49.8|54.2|
|w/o. rewriting|51.7|56.2|
|w/o. selection|50.9|58.6|
|Self-CRAG|49.0|61.8|
|w/o. refnement|35.9|52.2|
|w/o. rewriting|37.2|58.4|
|w/o. selection|24.9|57.9|

Table 3: Ablation study for removing each knowledge utilization operationon the PopQAin termsof accuracy. 

## **5.4 Ablation Study** 

**The impactof each triggered action.** To further verify the effectivenessof triggered actions designedin the retrieval evaluator, ablation tests for removing each single actionin the proposed method were conductedas shownin Table 2. Evaluationson the PopQA dataset were conductedto demonstrate the performance changein termsof accuracy. Specifically, when the action Corrector Incorrect was removed, it was merged with Ambiguousso that the proportion that originally triggered Corrector Incorrect would trigger Ambiguous. On the other hand, when the action Ambiguous was removed, there was only one threshold against which all input queries clearly triggered Corrector Incorrect. From these results, it can be seen that there was a performance dropno matter which action was removed, illustrating that each action contributedto improving the robustnessof generation. To further illustrate the study, experiments are also conductedby triggering only one action once, and the results shownin the appendix also prove the consistency. 

||Accuracy|
|---|---|
|Our Retrieval Evaluator(T5-based)|84.3|
|ChatGPT|58.0|
|ChatGPT-CoT|62.4|
|ChatGPT-few-shot|64.7|

Table 4: Evaluationof our retrieval evaluator and ChatGPT for the retrieval resultson the PopQA dataset. 

**The impactof each knowledge utilization operation.** Table 3 illustrated how the performance changedif a key knowledge utilization operation was ablated. Evaluationson the PopQA datasetin termsof accuracy were conductedby individually removing the knowledge utilization operationsof document refinement, search query rewriting, and external knowledge selection. Removing document refinement denoted that the original retrieved documents were directly fedto the following generator, asin most existing works. Additionally, removing search query rewriting denoted that questions were not rewritten into queries consistingof keywords during knowledge searching. Eventually, removing knowledge selection denoted that all searched contentof web pages was all regardedas the external knowledge without selection. These results help derive the findings that the performanceof the final system degradedno matter which knowledge utilization operation was removed, revealing that each knowledge utilization operation contributedto improving the utilizationof knowledge. 

## **5.5 Accuracyof the Retrieval Evaluator** 

The qualityof the retrieval evaluator significantly determined the performanceof the entire system. Given the document retrieval results, we assessed whether the retrieval evaluator can accurately determine the overall qualityof these results. The assessment accuracyon the PopQA datasetof our retrieval evaluator and the commercial LLM ChatGPTon the document retrieval results was shownin Table 4. The promptsof _ChatGPT_ , _ChatGPT-CoT_ , and _ChatGPT-few-shot_ usedin our experiments can be referredto in Appendix A. Results reveal that the lightweight T5-based retrieval evaluator significantly outperformed the competitive ChatGPTin all settings. 

## **5.6 Robustnessto Retrieval Performance** 

To further verify the robustnessof the proposed methodto retrieval performance, we studied how the generation performance changed given different 

**==> picture [227x 126] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Startof picture text -----**<br>
70<br>Self-RAG Self-CRAG<br>60<br>50<br>40<br>30<br>no retrieval<br>20 69.8 60 50 40 30 20 10<br>(Actual)<br>Accuracyof retrieval<br>Accuracyof generation<br>**----- Endof picture text -----**<br>

Figure 3: The generation performanceof Self-RAG and Self-CRAG given different retrieval performanceon the PopQA dataset with SelfRAG-LLaMA-7b. The lower horizontal line demonstrates the performanceof the generator without retrieval. 

||LLaMA2-hf-7b|SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b|
|---|---|---|
|PopQA|||
|CRAG|54.9|59.8|
|RAG|50.5|52.8|
|RAGw. web|52.2|53.8|
|Self-CRAG|49.0|61.8|
|Self-RAG|29.0|54.9|
|Self-RAGw. web|24.9|57.9|

Table 5: Comparison results between CRAG, SelfCRAG and RAG, Self-RAG with the same inputin termsof accuracy. 

retrieval performance. A partof accurate retrieval results were deliberately removedat randomto imitate a low-quality retriever and evaluate how the performance changed. Figure 3 demonstrated the performance changeof Self-RAG and SelfCRAGon the PopQA dataset. It can be seen that the generation performanceof Self-RAG and Self-CRAG droppedas the retrieval performance dropped, indicating that the generator relied heavilyon the qualityof the retriever. Furthermore, as the retrieval performance dropped, the generation performanceof Self-CRAG dropped more slightly than thatof Self-RAG. These results imply the superiorityof Self-CRAG over Self-RAGon enhancing the robustnessto retrieval performance. 

## **5.7 Consistent Supplementationof Web Search Knowledge** 

This paper highlights the necessityof enhancing the retrieved contextby incorporating additional information when the initial retrieval results are irrelevant and unreliable. Meanwhile, it is also crucialto confirm that the primary improvementsin our method stem from the self-correction mech- 

||TFLOPs per token|executing time(s)|
|---|---|---|
|RAG|26.5|0.363|
|CRAG|27.2|0.512|
|Self-RAG|26.5_∼_132.4|0.741|
|Self-CRAG|27.2_∼_80.2|0.908|

Table 6: computational overhead assessmentof RAG, CRAG, Self-CRAG, and Self-RAG about FLOPs per tokenon GPUs and executing time per instance. The upper boundof Self-CRAG is lower because only three passages are providedas input (correct, incorrect and ambiguous content). All the datain the table only represents a rough estimateof the generation phase, the retrieval and data-processing stages are not included. 

anism, rather than solely from the supplementary information obtained through web searches. To further demonstrate the effectivenessof the proposed self-correction mechanism, both RAG and Self-RAG were consistently supplemented with web search knowledgeto ensure they had accessto the same scopeof the retrieved knowledge. The resultsin Table 5 show that consistently supplementing RAGor Self-RAG with web search knowledge can improve the performancein most cases (except Self-RAGw. web using the original LLaMA2 model), though the improvement remains limited. Furthermore, augmenting RAGor SelfRAG with the proposed self-correction mechanism significantly outperformed the models consistently supplemented with web search knowledgein all cases. This finding confirms that the observed advancements are primarily attributableto the proposed self-correction mechanism. 

## **5.8 Computational Overhead Analysis** 

To illustrate that our self-correction mechanism servesas a lightweight, plug-and-play solution for various RAG-based frameworks, we measured the computational overhead. FLOPs prediction formulasin Narayananet al. (2021) were employed, with the results presentedin Table 6 which shows the predicted FLOPs per tokenon GPUs. Dueto the adaptive natureof Self-RAG, which varies its generation strategies basedon input, the computational overhead cannot be precisely determined. Therefore, we presentan estimated range instead. Additionally, we conducted the experimentson PopQAto assess the average execution time per instancein practice, as detailedin Table 6. The findings indicate that the self-correction mechanism incurs only modest computational overhead 

while significantly enhancing performance, thereby validating its lightweight nature. 

## **6 Conclusion & Limitation** 

This paper studies the problem where RAG-based approaches are challengedif retrieval goes wrong, thereby exposing inaccurate and misleading knowledgeto generative LMs. Corrective Retrieval Augmented Generation is proposedto improve the robustnessof generation. Essentially, a lightweight retrieval evaluator is to estimate and trigger three knowledge retrieval actions discriminately. With the further leverageof web search and optimized knowledge utilization, CRAG has significantly improved the abilityof automatic self-correction and efficient utilizationof retrieved documents. Experiments extensively demonstrate its adaptabilityto RAG-based approachesas wellas generalizability across short- and long-form generation tasks. Whilewe primarily proposedto improve the RAG framework from a corrective perspective and CRAG can be seamlessly coupled with various RAG-based approaches, fine-tuningan external retrieval evaluator is inevitable. Howto eliminate this external evaluator and equip LLMs with better retrieval evaluation capabilities will be our future work. 

## **References** 

- Rohan Anil, Andrew M. Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lepikhin, Alexandre Passos, Siamak Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng Chen, Eric Chu, Jonathan H. Clark, Laurent El Shafey, Yanping Huang, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Gaurav Mishra, Erica Moreira, Mark Omernick, Kevin Robinson, Sebastian Ruder, etal. 2023. PaLM 2 technical report. _CoRR_ , abs/2305.10403. 

- Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024. Self-rag: Learningto retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection. In _The Twelfth International Conferenceon Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, Vienna, Austria, May 7-11, 2024_ . OpenReview.net. 

- Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023. A multitask, multilingual, multimodal evaluationof chatgpton reasoning, hallucination, and interactivity. pages 675–718. 

- Sumithra Bhakthavatsalam, Daniel Khashabi, Tushar Khot, Bhavana Dalvi Mishra, Kyle Richardson, Ashish Sabharwal, Carissa Schoenick, Oyvind 

Tafjord, and Peter Clark. 2021. Think you have solved direct-answer question answering? try arc-da, the direct-answer AI2 reasoning challenge. _CoRR_ , abs/2102.03315. 

- Tom B Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, etal. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In _Advancesin neural information processing systems_ , pages 1877–1901. 

- Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Sebastian Gehrmann, Parker Schuh, Kensen Shi, Sasha Tsvyashchenko, Joshua Maynez, Abhishek Rao, Parker Barnes, Yi Tay, Noam Shazeer, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Emily Reif, Nan Du, Ben Hutchinson, Reiner Pope, James Bradbury, Jacob Austin, Michael Isard, Guy Gur-Ari, Pengcheng Yin, Toju Duke, Anselm Levskaya, Sanjay Ghemawat, Sunipa Dev, Henryk Michalewski, Xavier Garcia, Vedant Misra, Kevin Robinson, Liam Fedus, Denny Zhou, Daphne Ippolito, David Luan, Hyeontaek Lim, Barret Zoph, Alexander Spiridonov, Ryan Sepassi, David Dohan, Shivani Agrawal, Mark Omernick, Andrew M. Dai, Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Marie Pellat, Aitor Lewkowycz, Erica Moreira, Rewon Child, Oleksandr Polozov, Katherine Lee, Zongwei Zhou, Xuezhi Wang, Brennan Saeta, Mark Diaz, Orhan Firat, Michele Catasta, Jason Wei, Kathy Meier-Hellstern, Douglas Eck, Jeff Dean, Slav Petrov, and Noah Fiedel. 2023. Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways. _J. Mach. Learn. Res._ , 24:240:1–240:113. 

- Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Mojtaba Komeili, Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Jason Weston. 2024. Chain-of-verification reduces hallucinationin large language models. pages 3563– 3578. 

- Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Rohan Taori, Tianyi Zhang, Ishaan Gulrajani, Jimmy Ba, Carlos Guestrin, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori B. Hashimoto. 2023. Alpacafarm: A simulation framework for methods that learn from human feedback. _CoRR_ , abs/2305.14387. 

- Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented language model pre-training. In _Proceedingsof the 37th International Conferenceon Machine Learning, ICML 2020, 13-18 July 2020, Virtual Event_ , volume 119of _Proceedingsof Machine Learning Research_ , pages 3929–3938. PMLR. 

- Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2022. Unsupervised dense information retrieval with contrastive learning. _Trans. Mach. Learn. Res._ , 2022. 

- Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Yejin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023. Surveyof hallucinationin natural language generation. _ACM Comput. Surv._ , 55(12):248:1–248:38. 

- Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023. Active retrieval augmented generation. In _Proceedingsof the 2023 Conferenceon Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023_ , pages 7969–7992. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Jaehyung Kim, Jaehyun Nam, Sangwoo Mo, Jongjin Park, Sang-Woo Lee, Minjoon Seo, Jung-Woo Ha, and Jinwoo Shin. 2024. Sure: Summarizing retrievals using answer candidates for open-domain QAof llms. In _The Twelfth International Conferenceon Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, Vienna, Austria, May 7-11, 2024_ . OpenReview.net. 

- Mojtaba Komeili, Kurt Shuster, and Jason Weston. 2022. Internet-augmented dialogue generation. In _Proceedingsof the 60th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27, 2022_ , pages 8460–8478. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Patrick S. H. Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In _Advancesin Neural Information Processing Systems 33: Annual Conferenceon Neural Information Processing Systems 2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual_ . 

- Huayang Li, Yixuan Su, Deng Cai, Yan Wang, and Lemao Liu. 2022. A surveyon retrieval-augmented text generation. _CoRR_ , abs/2202.01110. 

- Yanming Liu, Xinyue Peng, Xuhong Zhang, Weihao Liu, Jianwei Yin, Jiannan Cao, and Tianyu Du. 2024. RA-ISF: learningto answer and understand from retrieval augmentation via iterative self-feedback. In _Findingsof the Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL 2024, Bangkok, Thailand and virtual meeting, August 11-16, 2024_ , pages 4730– 4749. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Hongyin Luo, Tianhua Zhang, Yung-Sung Chuang, Yuan Gong, Yoon Kim, Xixin Wu, Helen Meng, and James R. Glass. 2023. Search augmented instruction learning. In _Findingsof the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023_ , pages 3717–3729. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. When notto trust language models: Investigating effectivenessof parametric and nonparametric memories. In _Proceedingsof the 61st Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2023, Toronto, Canada, July 9-14, 2023_ , pages 9802–9822. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Sewon Min, Kalpesh Krishna, Xinxi Lyu, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei Koh, Mohit Iyyer, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. Factscore: Fine-grained atomic evaluationof factual precisionin long form text generation. In _Proceedingsof the 2023 Conferenceon Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023_ , pages 12076– 12100. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Dor Muhlgay, Ori Ram, Inbal Magar, Yoav Levine, Nir Ratner, Yonatan Belinkov, Omri Abend, Kevin Leyton-Brown, Amnon Shashua, and Yoav Shoham. 2023. Generating benchmarks for factuality evaluationof language models. _CoRR_ , abs/2307.06908. 

- Deepak Narayanan, Mohammad Shoeybi, Jared Casper, Patrick LeGresley, Mostofa Patwary, Vijay Korthikanti, Dmitri Vainbrand, Prethvi Kashinkunti, Julie Bernauer, Bryan Catanzaro, Amar Phanishayee, and Matei Zaharia. 2021. Efficient large-scale language model trainingon GPU clusters using megatron-lm. In _International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, SC 2021, St. Louis, Missouri, USA, November 14-19, 2021_ , page 58. ACM. 

- OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 technical report. _CoRR_ , abs/2303.08774. 

- Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll L. Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton, Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul F. Christiano, Jan Leike, and Ryan Lowe. 2022. Training language modelsto follow instructions with human feedback. In _NeurIPS_ . 

- Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Dmytro Okhonko, Samuel Broscheit, Gautier Izacard, Patrick S. H. Lewis, Barlas Oguz, Edouard Grave, Wen-tau Yih, and Sebastian Riedel. 2021. The web is your oyster - knowledge-intensive NLP against a very large web corpus. _CoRR_ , abs/2112.09924. 

- Chengwei Qin, Aston Zhang, Zhuosheng Zhang, Jiaao Chen, Michihiro Yasunaga, and Diyi Yang. 2023. Is chatgpt a general-purpose natural language processing task solver? In _Proceedingsof the 2023 Conferenceon Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023_ , pages 1339–1384. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2020. Exploring the limitsof transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. _J. Mach. Learn. Res._ , 21:140:1–140:67. 

- Md. Rashad Al Hasan Rony, Ricardo Usbeck, and Jens Lehmann. 2022. Dialokg: Knowledge-structure aware task-oriented dialogue generation. In _Findingsof the Association for Computational Linguistics:_ 

   - _NAACL 2022, Seattle, WA, United States, July 10-15, 2022_ , pages 2557–2571. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselvesto use tools. 

- Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed H. Chi, Nathanael Schärli, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Large language models can be easily distractedby irrelevant context. In _Proceedingsof the 40th International Conferenceon Machine Learning_ , volume 202of _Proceedingsof Machine Learning Research_ , pages 31210–31227. PMLR. 

- Kurt Shuster, Spencer Poff, Moya Chen, Douwe Kiela, and Jason Weston. 2021. Retrieval augmentation reduces hallucinationin conversation. In _Findingsof the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2021, Virtual Event / Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 16-20 November, 2021_ , pages 3784–3803. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- Chao-Hong Tan, Jia-Chen Gu, Chongyang Tao, ZhenHua Ling, Can Xu, Huang Hu, Xiubo Geng, and Daxin Jiang. 2022. Tegtok: Augmenting text generation via task-specific and open-world knowledge. In _Findingsof the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27, 2022_ , pages 1597–1609. Association for Computational Linguistics. 

- S. M. Towhidul Islam Tonmoy, S. M. Mehedi Zaman, Vinija Jain, Anku Rani, Vipula Rawte, Aman Chadha, and Amitava Das. 2024. A comprehensive surveyof hallucination mitigation techniquesin large language models. _CoRR_ , abs/2401.01313. 

- Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, Aurélien Rodriguez, Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, and Guillaume Lample. 2023a. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models. _CoRR_ , abs/2302.13971. 

- Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, Dan Bikel, Lukas Blecher, etal. 2023b. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. _CoRR_ , abs/2307.09288. 

- Zihao Wang, Anji Liu, Haowei Lin, Jiaqi Li, Xiaojian Ma, and Yitao Liang. 2024. RAT: retrieval augmented thoughts elicit context-aware reasoningin long-horizon generation. _CoRR_ , abs/2403.05313. 

- Ori Yoran, Tomer Wolfson, Ori Ram, and Jonathan Berant. 2024. Making retrieval-augmented language models robustto irrelevant context. 

- Tianhua Zhang, Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Wei Fang, Luc Gaitskell, Thomas Hartvigsen, Xixin Wu, Danny Fox, Helen Meng, and James R. Glass. 2023a. Interpretable unified language checking. _CoRR_ , abs/2304.03728. 

- Tianjun Zhang, Shishir G. Patil, Naman Jain, Sheng Shen, Matei Zaharia, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. 2024. RAFT: adapting language modelto domain specific RAG. _CoRR_ , abs/2403.10131. 

- Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu, Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang, Yulong Chen, Longyue Wang, Anh Tuan Luu, Wei Bi, Freda Shi, and Shuming Shi. 2023b. Siren’s songin the AI ocean: A surveyon hallucinationin large language models. _CoRR_ , abs/2309.01219. 

- Qihuang Zhong, Liang Ding, Juhua Liu, Bo Du, and Dacheng Tao. 2023. Can chatgpt understand too? A comparative studyon chatgpt and fine-tuned BERT. _CoRR_ , abs/2302.10198. 

## **A Task Prompts** 

The prompts for generating knowledge keywordsas web search queries were illustratedin Table 7. 

Table 7: The few-shot promptto GPT-3.5 Turbo for generating knowledge keywordsas web search queries. 

Extractat most three keywords separatedby comma from the following dialogues and questionsas queries for the web search, including topic background within dialogues and main intent within questions. 

question: What is Henry Feilden’s occupation? query: Henry Feilden, occupation 

question: In what city was Billy Carlson born? query: city, Billy Carlson, born 

question: What is the religionof John Gwynn? query: religionof John Gwynn 

question: What sport does Kiribati men’s national basketball team play? query: sport, Kiribati men’s national basketball team play 

Table 10: The few-shot promptto GPT-3.5 Turboas the evaluator. 

Given a question, does the following document have exact informationto answer the question? Answer yesor no only. 

Question: In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? Document: Bancroft was bornon November 25, 1839in New Ipswich, New Hampshireto James Bancroft and Sarah Kimball. Atan early agehe was cared forby Mr. and Mrs. Patchof Ashby, Massachusetts, the neighboring town. While not legally adopted, they named him Cecil Franklin Patch Bancroft, adding Franklin Patch after the son Mr. and Mrs. Patch had who recently died. He attended public schoolsin Ashbyas wellas the Appleton Academyin New Ipswich. He entered Dartmouth Collegein 1856at the ageof sixteen and graduatedin 1860 near the topof his class. Bancroft continued his educationas he began his careerin teaching. He took classesat the Union Theological Seminaryin New York City during the 186465 academic year. While therehe was a memberof the United States Christian Commission, travelingto support soldiers during the Civil War. He then transferredto the Andover Theological Seminary wherehe would graduatein 1867. 

Answer: No. 

question: [question] query: 

The promptsto instruct ChatGPTas the evaluator were illustratedin Table 8, Table 9, and Table 10 respectively. 

Table 8: The direct promptto GPT-3.5 Turboas the evaluator. 

Given a question, does the following document have exact informationto answer the question? Answer yesor no only. Question: [question] Document: [document] 

Question: In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? 

Document: Wilcza Jama is a villagein the administrative districtof Gmina Sokółka, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, closeto the border with Belarus. 

Answer: Yes. 

Question: What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? 

Document: The 2004 Legg Mason Tenis Classic was the 36th editionof this tennis tournament and was playedon outdoor hard courts. The tournament was partof the International Seriesof the 2004 ATP Tour. It was heldat the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Centerin Washington, D.C. from August 16 through August 22, 2004. Answer: Yes. 

Question: Who is the authorof Skin? 

Table 9: The promptto GPT-3.5 Turbo with Chain-ofThoughtas the evaluator. 

Given a question, does the following document have exact informationto answer the question? Question: [question] Document: [document] Think Stepby step, and answer with yesor no only. 

Document: The Skin We’re In: A Yearof Black Resistance and Power is a bookby Desmond Cole publishedby Doubleday Canadain 2020. The Skin We’re In describes the struggle against racismin Canada during the year 2017, chronicling Cole’s roleas an anti-racist activist and the impactof systemic racismin Canadian society. Among the eventsit discusses are the aftermathof the assaultof Dafonte Millerin late 2016 and Canada 150. The work argues that Canada is not immuneto the anti-Black racism that characterizes American society. Dueto an errorby the publisher, the initial printingof the book’s cover did not include word Blackïn the subtitle.[¨] The mistake was later corrected. The book won the Toronto Book Award for 2020. In 2021, the book was nominated for the Shaughnessy Cohen Prize for Political Writing. Answer: No. 

Question: [question] Document: [document] Answer: 

## **B Experiments** 

## **B.1 Tasks, Datasets and Metrics** 

CRAG was evaluatedon four datasets, which arein public domain and licensed for research purposes, including: 

**PopQA** (Mallenet al., 2023) is a _short_ -form generation task. Generally, only one entityof factual knowledge is expectedto be answered for each single question. In our experiments, we exactly followed the settingin Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) which evaluated methodson a long-tail subset consistingof 1,399 rare entity queries whose monthly Wikipedia page views are less than 100. Accuracy was adoptedas the evaluation metric. **Biography** (Minet al., 2023) is a _long_ -form generation task that is taskedto generate a detailed biography about a certain entity. Following previous work, FactScore (Minet al., 2023) was adoptedto evaluate the generated biographies. 

**PubHealth** (Zhanget al., 2023a) is a taskin health care domain consistingof true-or-false questions. Claims are represented about health with factual information, and the model is taskedto verify the authenticity and give the judgment. Accuracy was adoptedas the evaluation metric. 

**Arc-Challenge** (Bhakthavatsalamet al., 2021) is a multiple-choice question task about some daily commonsense science phenomena. Given a scientific event that occursin daily life, the model is requiredto select the correct description among 3or 4 optional choices. Accuracy was adoptedas the evaluation metricas well. 

## **B.2 Experiments compute Resources** 

We used NVIDIA A800 80GB GPU for experiments. For LLaMA-2 (7B) generation, it occupies over 40GB memory during inference. For T5-large (0.77B) fine-tuning, it takes much less compared with LLaMA-2. 

## **B.3 Implementation Details** 

**Retrieval Evaluator:** We fine-tuned the retrieval evaluator basedon the lightweight T5-large (Raffelet al., 2020) pre-trained model. The datasetwe used is the version providedby Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024). Specifically, the original PopQA dataset consistsof 14k samples, 1,399of which were used for testing following Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024), and the remaining were used for fine-tuningto avoid information leakage. Besides, the fine-tuned evaluator was transferred and also 

utilizedon the Bio, Pub and ARC datasets during inference. The labelof positive samples was 1, while thatof negative ones was -1. At inference, the evaluator scored the relevance from -1to 1 for each document. The two confidence thresholds for triggering oneof the three actions were set empirically. Specifically, they were setas (0.59, -0.99) in PopQA, (0.5, -0.91) in PubQA and ArcChallenge, as wellas (0.95, -0.91) in Biography. 

**Internal Knowledge:** To obtain fine-grained retrieval results, we segmented the retrieved results into internal strips. If a retrieved result is as shortas oneor two sentences, it is regardedas an individual strip, otherwise, retrieval documents are requiredto be split into smaller units which generally consistof a few sentences accordingto the total length. The scale is assumedto includean independent pieceof information, and the filtering is basedon the segments. We directly adopted the evaluator again for knowledge strips filtering, and the top-k is setto 5, filter thresholdas -0.5. 

**External Knowledge:** Google Search API was adoptedto search for the relevant URLs, top-k is setto 5, and pages from Wikipedia will be added preferentially. The searched web pages are generallyin the formof HTML files, where content is split with special tokens like _<_p _>_ and _<_ /p _>_ . Thusan extra segmentation like the knowledge refinement is not required, related knowledge paragraphs can be directly selected with the evaluator similarto internal knowledge. In this way, the accuracyof the search outcomes can be ensured without compromising the quality and relevanceof the information used for generation. 

**Generator:** As CRAG is a plug-and-play method, all generation models that can be utilizedin RAG fit our approachas well. To be consistent with baselines for comparison, we adopted LLaMA2 (Touvronet al., 2023b) for the generation. We first introduced the _LLaMA2-hf7b_ from huggingfaceto generate responses. Since Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) fine-tuned LLaMA2 and reached a new state-of-the-art performanceon several tasks, we further utilized the launched model, _SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b_ , as a new generatorto be consistent with their work and study the specific improvementof our method. 

**Self-CRAG:** To demonstrate that our plug-andplay approach can be utilizedin other concurrent studies, we specifically designedto insert our CRAG into the Self-RAG (Asaiet al., 2024) framework and namedit Self-CRAG. Self-RAG 

Table 11: Ablation study for removing only a single actionon the PopQA datasetin termsof accuracy. 

||LLaMA2-hf-7b|SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b|
|---|---|---|
|CRAG|54.9|59.8|
|onlyCorrect|52.4|56.7|
|onlyIncorrect|47.0|48.5|
|onlyAmbiguous|52.7|58.0|
|Self-CRAG|49.0|61.8|
|onlyCorrect|48.6|57.2|
|onlyIncorrect|40.8|53.3|
|onlyAmbiguous|44.9|59.8|

is an advanced RAG approach that introduces a critic modelto decide whetherto retrieve and which retrieved documentto be referred for generation. It meets our demand for deciding which actionto be triggered, thuswe replaced the retrieved itemsin Self-RAG with our processed internal knowledge for Correct, external knowledge for Incorrect, and combined knowledge for Ambiguous. 

## **B.4 More Detailed Results** 

**Ablation Study:** The following resultsin Table 11 demonstrate the ablation studyby triggering one action only for all instances. 

## **B.5 Resultson PubHealth and Arc-Challenge** 

It is worth mentioning that the performanceon PubHealth basedon _LLaMA2-hf-7b_ was much worse than others. We studied these cases and found that _LLaMA2-hf-7b_ is relatively weakin instruction comprehension. Mostof the cases failto generate Trueor Falsein such a binaryquestion task, resultingin a low accuracy during the evaluation. This situation somewhat happensin Arc-Challengeas well, when the model is taskedto generate the indexof a candidate. 

